we were on the Venture track for uh a
few years growing rapidly but
uncontrollably and and we made a very
difficult decision to re-engineer the
business model re-engineer the executive
uh team and some pieces of the culture
so that we could build a longterm
business and a lot more sustainable a
lot more predictable and it took two
years of flat growth which I remember I
bet those investor updat that I would
send you You' cringe a little bit like
oh now there 0% I didn't cringe I'll
tell you why when you get these investor
updates when times are tough right from
Founders it's really interesting it's
really interesting because you look do
the founders still believe to the extent
you care about your investors and your
investors are not that important right
they're just one constituency of many
there's customers or employees but and
and when you
see a Founder start to check out even
just a little bit even just as a hint as
investor I immediately quit but when you
get from Andy it's um just fighting but
the fact that for what it's worth the
folks
that he never gave up that energy right
for what it's worth if you want to keep
employees investors and others on the
journey show that you are fighting as
hard as ever because then anyone that
cares will back you no one will quit
there are founders I've quit on but
because they quit first welcome to this
special edition of saster Workshop
Wednesday I've got Andy Wilson here
and this is like a a topic selling your
company to private Equity that I started
writing about out in saster back in 2012
2013 as these private Equity firms which
Andy will share more about started
buying SAS companies I regretted selling
just before this happened because when I
was a saso frankly there was between say
selling your company for hundred million
in an IPO there were very few options
there were very few options and then all
of a sudden private Equity realized hey
look software businesses with a 100% n
are if they're not burning much they're
an annuity they last for decades and
they came in and started buying
companies and last week David Kellog
joined us the many Andy knows too he
post analytics for several hundred
million dollars to
private and then I think about a year
ago Andy who re accelerated the growth
and sold it for hundreds of millions of
dollars to a private Equity Firm that
actually combined it with another
complimentary player that was even
bigger to take these companies public
together and and it was a great exit for
the company they bootstrapped the
company the first 10 years raised a
couple rounds of venture capital but
never got crazy never raised a unicorn
round and had not only a lucrative but a
very great outcome for having a private
Equity Firm buy you and there are
actually hundreds of these PE firms and
so I asked Andy to share the
learnings and the title here is a little
dramatic but it's something I'm actually
telling a lot of Founders today a lot of
Founders today because in 21 everyone
was go broker go
home the the last investment I made that
had a big exit from the bubble was in
December 2021 sales off sold to Vista
for almost two2 and a half billion
dollars and a lot of the boards said
don't sell it's too cheap it's too cheap
keep going we don't now today I'm
telling folks maybe slow it down a
little bit and most importantly what I'm
telling Founders today is a lot of folks
are growing faster than ever it's good
times in AI it's good times in security
it's good times in vertical SAS other
folks have seen their growth slow since
2021 and instead of grouching about it
on LinkedIn or complaining about it and
then I will shut up and I want and Andy
and I will discuss it I was telling
folks get yourself on what I call the PE
track and what is the private Equity
track it's changed a little bit this how
I summarized it there's the there's the
IPO track there's the never get anywhere
track and never hit scale and and slowly
die track the zombie track you don't
want to be in the zombie track but
there's one in the middle that's under
discussed if you can get to approaching
20 million ARR and I want to hear Andy's
thoughts on these until we dig in 20
million AR you don't have to grow 100%
if you can grow approaching 30% but
importantly not really be burning much
doesn't want to buy a company that's
burning a million dollars a month that's
not their job and generally speaking if
you have a 100% nrr or higher a lot of
PE firms will view you as an annuity if
you have these four bullets and you're
in a somewhat interesting space like
just enough that they can see an IPO or
an exit for them coming and so if you
stay on this track you can have a ninef
figure exit without having necessarily
kill yourself that you can't build a
$500 million company growing 50% because
that's the IPO at the bar at the moment
we've only had three SAS IPO since 2021
clay rubric in one stream they're all
growing 50% of 500 million AR and it's
not like
easy so talk about the is this would you
agree this is the PE track Andy is this
kind of what you saw and lived
absolutely bar might be a little bit
higher on the
revenue but the growth is Right burn you
know if your cash flow positive
obviously that's going to be a big plus
but just having no burn is is huge and
to your point about customers buying
more that's what they want because pirm
is looking at how they can you know
further squeeze more dollars out of the
out of the company and hopefully the
right way and if you've got happy
customers buy more then
there's probably ways to optimize that
for even higher growth so yeah I think
that's right so I think you went two
waves I had some P firms take a pass at
you in like 2021 and then they came back
in 2023 like what was the process how
did this all work did they find you did
you find them what was the journey here
yeah just to back check a little bit
further we were as like we were on the
Venture track for a few years growing
rapidly but
uncontrollably um and and we made a very
difficult decision to re-engineer the
business model re-engineer the executive
uh team and some pieces of the culture
so that we could build a longer longer
term business and a lot more sustainable
a lot more predictable and it took two
years of flat growth which I remember I
bet those investor updates that I would
send you you'd cringe a little bit like
oh now they 0% mon never mind that's not
not good
all the while burning cash I didn't
cringe I'll tell you why but keep going
so one to 10 was very fast one to 10 was
very fast right Z to one took 10 years
because you went from services to sass 1
to 10 went really fast right and then
you hit a wall and there was like no
growth for two years yeah it's no growth
at all but it was mainly by Design
because we were re-engineering the
entire business model pieces of the big
pieces of the culture so it was just
really painful pill to swallow but we
came out of it and started to re
accelerate growth from
and by the time we sold we were close to
40 million in revenue and growing at I
think at a time maybe 40% every year
cash positive and that dollar retention
I think was around one what to 110
somewhere around that yeah and as an
aside and let's dig into at the process
for what wor why you say why it's funny
when I get for folks that are that watch
this now or later on the Potter YouTube
when you get these investor updates when
times are tough right from founders it's
really interesting it's really
interesting because you look do the
founders still believe to the extent you
care about your investors and your
investors are not that important right
they're just one constituency of many
there's customers and employees but and
and when you
see a Founder start to check out even
just a little bit even just as a hit as
investor I immediately quit but when you
get from Andy it's I'm just fighting I
have 11 different types of SAS models
I'm trying pay by the second pay by the
year Andy would try more versions of the
model and look on the one hand I'm like
Andy you're crazy you can't change your
pricing and business model every week so
that in a sense that was a flag but the
fact that for what it's wor the folks
that he never gave up that energy right
even when the trans maybe I wouldn't
have done the transition the way he did
if I were asked maybe I wouldn't have
changed the management team I wouldn't
have made some of the decisions he made
so what on the long journey but for what
it's worth if you want to keep employees
investors and others on the journey show
that you are fighting as hard as ever
because then and anyone that cares will
back you no one will quit and I've been
investing for since
2012 2013 there are founders I've quit
on but because they quit
first yeah I always thought you would
create some sort of win out of this I
just maybe thought there was a lot of
ping ponging but never had any doubts
not even 1% doubt for what it's worth
folks that's awesome trct the team they
if you don't believe 110% no one's going
to believe in the tougher times that's
that's right you gotta lead by you gotta
lead by example my like family motto I
grew up in a military family and my dad
was I think he said never give up 10
times a day yeah so it's just ingrained
into my
psychology and yeah that was the I even
have a tattooed on my arm yeah so yeah
you got to have that and if you've got
that and you have you've burned the boat
so to speak you have no backup
plan that's that's all you can do just
and there's a subset and then I want to
talk about there's a subset of Founders
somewhere in the middle today who are I
call them the Slugs of SASS and I don't
mean to be mean because I I care about
Founders but they're growing in the 15
to 20% range and they're cool with it
they're cool with it they're cool with
it because like it's harder and there's
a whole group of them
and those are the ones I give up on I'd
rather you be growing 0% and killing
yourself to re accelerate the business
than getting a message that we're pretty
happy to have grown 15% this year it's
just not inspiring right and anyone
that's on the journey will expect bumps
but yeah don't be a slug of sass right
don't just don't settle don't settle
Absolut absolutely that's maybe a good
transition with some of the of the
tactics yes to help re accelerate growth
because if you're suffering from that
there's some things you I think you can
do every business is GNA be a little bit
different but I think there's some
horizontal good advice let's talk about
the tactics before we get there hold on
just to step back and I want to talk
about how you reacel Cel growth because
that's a good topic right just in terms
of PE private Equity firms because it's
not a world that Founders until you hit
a level I've heard much about did they
start to approach you how did the how
did the Ultimate deal come together over
time Just sh share The Narrative of how
it
happens yeah Shen and I my co-founder
Shen we came to the realization this is
not the Venture path before private
Equity became part of that the
conversation doesn't just yeah it's
going to be it's going to take too long
we were going at it for 19 years so we
had made the decision like okay we are
going to put this company on a path
where number one we want to build a
great business we still wanted to build
a long-term business but we wanted to do
it on our
terms and at the same time position
ourselves for optionality to sell the
company to a strategic so we we had made
that decision before private Equity came
about so what ended up happening is
because we're very transparent like you
see those investor updates like we we
share a lot of information both
externally with our board advisers and
internally with employees hid nothing
and word started to get around that we
were doing you know pretty well and
Landing some key forun 500 customers and
the head of a private Equity Firm out of
La called me out of blue and was
chitchatting he we want to buy you for x
and I said that's interesting number let
me think about that I took it back to
the board and the board that's an inter
in number let's let's see if we can get
a higher number and so that kind of
kicked the whole process off if he
literally made an unsolicited offer with
a fixed number did he have an investor
update how did he know your exact
metrics and numbers he didn't know the
exact metrics and numbers I shared with
him how we were doing so yeah on that
call I told him like here's what we're
doing yeah a lot of these people kick
the tires hey we'd love to buy you and
my response has always been the same
it's oh cool thank you we're not for
sale but what do you what are you
offering what's what's this what's the
me behind this and I said that exact
same thing to to this guy and see
throughout a number and shock like that
never happens but anyway I don't think
that would have happened had we not been
intentional about the path that we
wanted to go on and then the changes
that we made to get to that type of
conversation in the first place and
let's talk about that intentionally next
I think it is interesting it may
surprise folks that it was an inbound
lot were Tire kickers I think you said
only six got to the data room right but
what folks might not realize if you
haven't gotten to say 20 million ARR is
you don't realize that at these P firms
there're usually Legions of Associates
analysts vice presidents whose job it is
to talk to every logic but whether they
do the deal or not they need to hunt
everyone in software that reaches a
certain amount of scale and so if you
cross 20 million-ish my my number here
and you didn't raise at a $2 billion
valuation like structurally attractive
you'll start to get these inbound emails
right I literally talked with the
founder I invested in the other day that
that just crossed 60 million and I asked
I was really surprised I'm like how come
you haven't gotten any of these P meals
he's oh I get a lot I just never
responded to any of them you will get
them if you haven't if you're
structurally attractive right if you're
structurally attractive you don't have
to you don't have to hustle necessarily
you don't have to go to the right
conferences there are people whose job
it is and now next you can talk about
how you lubricated that process made it
better but there are folks who to hunt
you at north of 20 if you're
structurally attractive yeah job so they
will find you eventually yeah yeah yeah
and and the higher up in that totem pole
the better in terms of Outreach I didn't
really have much success talking with
the the bdrs of private Equity you know
and so what and so you talked about
getting the company fit to be attractive
to PE so what are the things that you
inent did to make it more attractive to
PE okay so go through how I structur my
thoughts here um so there's a lot here
but I'll give you some kind of Basics
and I think all the things I've bolded
here are
in my opinion maybe the the most
important so incentiv being number one
I'm G talk about that in a second people
on the bus so I talked about your
co-founders if you have co-founders you
need to make sure that you're aligned
like you are in agreement like we are
doing this is what we're going to do
right there's no maybe one foot in one
foot out no this needs to be like this
is what we're going to do and same is
true with your board so you need to get
the board aligned on that I would
withhold talking with anybody other than
that on like your executive team because
you might not have the right people on
the bus on the executive team I'm not
going to go into details about the
people that you have in particular but
if you have somebody that's they're
they're hoping for the
IPO or that's what they're built for and
that's no longer on the table then you
probably to get them on off the bus so
OB saying start reverse engineering your
mind as a PE firm and okay what would a
PE firm if they bought me today what
would they do to my company and so if
you have a lot of nice to have you're
going to want to that and really get
down to Basics the one thing that I
think you absolutely need to have on
your team is a finance whiz somebody who
is just like a freak in the sheets like
they can just manipulate a spreadsheet
like you wouldn't believe preferably has
come from a banking
background and has been a part of these
types of deals whether that's a
mid-market bank or a large Bank it
doesn't particularly matter and somebody
who's G to work and burn them in N oil
because that's what's going to happen
like when you go fast forward and you
get into the whole deal processed there
will be many weekends and late nights
where
you're uh a flood of random due
diligence requests and most of them are
Finance related much more than you'd
expect from a VC right much more like an
order of magnitude right oh yeah orders
of magnitude more makes no sense this
business is not that complicated guys
but it's it's overwhelming the scale of
financial due diligence right yeah it's
so demanding you it's just so and that's
I think a critical hire we had a vpf
finance that had that background and it
worked out great like it would very
smooth very organized we could talk
about later but that person ends up
running point on the data room and
pretty much every due diligence request
because the vast majority of them are
going to be financially
related yeah want to talk about
incentives or cash incentives okay show
me the the incen I'll show you the
outcome I think is a famous trer qu or
War one of those sages I've the
structure this turned out to be maybe
the most important thing like the more I
reflect on how did we go from
0% to close to 40% and adding T of
millions an logicals beyond that how did
we do that it was the incentive
structure that we created that's I think
the
majority of impact and so I'll tell you
what we did and your results will vary
but we got rid of annual plans we got
rid of annual plans annual planning to
us became silly it's like this just
doesn't make any sense you're you're not
that good at predicting on such a small
base so we went to quarterly plans and
we built um a bonus structure that was
available to all Executives all managers
all directors and some ic's it was a
company pot that if we hit our quarterly
revenue and cash targets then everybody
got a bonus paid that quarter because
you have to focus on the short term like
that's the path that you're on you're no
longer on this we're going to go Ito in
number of years from now you need to
focus on the short term and so
condensing your goals into these quarter
chunks can be pretty impactful and and I
said and you have to have both and you
have to have the revenue goals and the
cash goals so if we didn't hit our cash
goal but we hit the revenue goal ah
sorry nobody gets the bonus not going to
happen so that was huge and those
percentages are based on so the the
bonus percentages were an annual basis
but we would carve it up quarterly and
there were accelerators too you know
unlimited upside if we blew it on the
water but again both of them had to hit
and so the higher up you are in the
organization the higher percentage of
your salary the bonus so our Executives
were getting about 30 to 40% of their
salary as a potential bonus pool and
then managers would go all the way
ratchet down to 15% somewhere around
there interesting I like that first of
all a material incentive 40% is a lot
right move away from the Visionary stuff
for the year let's align with what's
going to matter which is a cash
efficient business that's growing very
repeatedly like very repeatedly right I
it wasn't even P I remember when we were
getting acquired by Adobe the month
before like we were growing always in
the mid sixes percent per month at 10
million okay so double in the one month
before we were like 5.8 and someone
freaked out corate development team
they're like we have to stop this
acquisition and to his credit the SB was
like it's one month let's average the
last 12 but even and that wasn't even
for p just one month dropping below 6%
growth at Double just they freaked out
and P is going to be just as in as
sensitive right so you got to align the
team and on cash right on all but the
40% is enough to get people's attention
right
yeah every the deals always slide to
next quarter but not in this plan yeah
and the cash component like that con
really changed the culture like we went
from okay let's hire this person do we
really want to do that you get you get
Rel genen pretty quickly I don't think
it's all good because I suspect when you
move to that mode you do sacrifice
medium and long-term marketing right by
its nature and you sacrifice but I don't
know that it's bad because you're in
this mode right you're in this mode
right but it's hard to invest in
something with a 14-month payback isn't
it if you're on a quarterly plan that's
true it's amazing what happens though so
all of sudden our sales rests are
getting prepaid deals some of them are
getting deals paid up they'll get
prepaid deals up the wazo if if you tie
to cash right yeah exactly this is great
learning for p if you're going long
there are downsides to pushing for cash
you will break some customers you will
break some relationships right I don't
think it all has some trade in my exper
I'm not saying it's not the right
tradeoffs um but um sometimes you had 11
different payment programs they don't
all need to be prepaid right
I had two by the way you go in
subscription that's it you're right yeah
anyway yeah but this is a great story
align everything on the quarter right
cash comes in everything expenditures
are aligned on it right think like a p
yeah yeah exactly and we would every
week like it was the drum beat every old
hands like this is how we're doing
here's how we're track yeah everybody
knew what was going on and we did
workshops on like how to say more cash
there's there was a lot once you get
focused on those two things it's okay
what is how is this going to help us
grow Revenue how is this going to help
us grow our cash bance pretty simple the
last thing there is just as zbb stands
for zerob based budgeting this is again
more
tactical I I encourage any company on
whatever P but do this every six months
right I never we never had in the
company set budgets we never did it we
all always looked at it from Bottoms Up
okay does does this is this really
Justified and then once we got on this
path we standardize it to do it pretty
much every six months where we would
work Bottoms Up and we would look at
every expense I didn't even I didn't
even make a cut off for five we're gonna
look at every single bank because it
didn't take much time like you just have
a finance wi organize it for you and
categorize it and then you can look at
it top down in buckets and then you can
go bottoms up and you start cutting and
it's pretty Magic how much money you can
save when you do this St creeps up this
is morale
morale yeah because you go from we're
going IPO you now we're gonna be ringing
the the Bell they're like okay we're
gonna make the more sustainable business
and and everybody's going to benefit and
here's how this is tough this is really
tough especially if you got changes on
the bus right like I had to replace
pretty much my entire executive team
whole sales team I had to replace that
except for one guy that was tough that
was tough for morale but I'll tell you
what I did to keep that morale going and
it all comes from customers I think in
general customers empathy because if you
generally care about your
customers you're going to have empathy
for them and empathy ultimately leads to
urgency and we just over rotated on
customer engagement across the whole
company so we made contests on like how
many customers you talk to today for
this week we would get Engineers
embedded in a almost paler like model
with a customer where they're working
with them side by side to understand
what their true problem was and then
come back with a solution that also
helped with the third part here is
increasing product velocity is possible
if you can get the people actually
working on the code connecting with
customers on a regular basis and hearing
from them you will have higher urgency
Because unless they're sociopaths like
they're going to have empathy for the
pain that a customer is experiencing I
love that yeah and then they'll go hard
at it internal transparency big thing
for us so we every week we would do an
all hands except for I think one week of
the month we would skip it just give
people a break and it was pretty quick
we're talking like 15 minutes this
wasn't like a whole Pola thing and our
one of our core values was put the
customer first so we tried to take that
as literally as possible
and we would bring them in to the All
Hands and we would start the C we would
start our all hands with a customer
conversation and the way we did that I
would just call them because you know
people a customers feel awkward like
joining a giant Zoom meeting and it's
hard for them to be themselves and tell
you honest feedback so I would just call
them through zoom and we would have a
quick chat about their experience with
logical what they don't like so kind of
sh sandwich them so that we don't on a
bad not and then what are they like up
so that we can shower the the team with
praise yes little tactics like that I
think go a long way and then my
co-founder and I did a weekly podcast
like an internal podcast where we would
tell customer
stories we did internal shoutouts where
we would hear about people doing amazing
things for customers and we would share
those stories that was pretty big and
then I would send a weekly email every
Sunday that would go over how we're
doing again against our
goals where we need to improve and what
we're doing this week what are the goals
this week every every week there were
like I knew okay here's what we're doing
this week and it was always align to a
and cash and then we would share that
information at the All Hands meeting
here's how we're doing guys and I think
that was that was huge customer
engagement increase that increase
internal transparency and then we also
adopted the Cadence if you're familiar
with that David Sachs wrote about it
where we would do corly product launch
events that was pretty good from
morale and additional cut through
engagement yeah I think when things are
tougher for whatever reason or going
through a phase chain breaking stuff
down into smaller shorter chunks always
helps whether they're micro Milestones
or other goals especially ones you can
even accomplish this week it just keeps
like instead of me grouching about all
the change let's compete the most
customer meetings this week let's send
an engineer to go meet at least on Zoom
with a customer like it just it focuses
people on the right things when you
break it into micro Milestones rather
than just being grouchy and looking at
the 1231 goal rightt exactly let's focus
on what we can change this week and so
once you focus on revenue and cash as
Target you're just trying to unblock
what is the one thing that you can
unblock this week yeah what's the one
thing unblock this week yeah it's just
GNA get you a little bit more a little
bit more and when you have that level of
granularity it becomes a lot easier for
you to because as CEO you've got to
change the goal post right but you don't
want to go too far out you want to just
do it incrementally so that you can
still win like you don't want to miss a
quarter like that's not good especially
when you're on the WAP if you'd miss a
quarter or a month to your earlier Point
like all the all hell bricks
list last thing I I forgot to mention on
the zerit budgeting another thing that
we did is We incentivized the finance
team on a DSO Target so dayel
outstanding as is a critical metric for
finance and so ours was rages at one
point it was like well over 100 and we
got it down to 30 that was the goal
every week it was like how can we bring
this down yeah I like that I in the
earlier stages I just love to track
collections over Mr But ultimately DSO
is the is how it gets done but I love to
see you collecting more than your Mr
each month in cash that's a sign you're
doing okay and then you get more
sophisticated like you but I see so many
folks who it's the opposite right the
cash collected is below the Mr and
you just broken no is broken and that's
and you're not gonna make so much worse
yeah you're not gonna make PE happy if
if the ratio isn't inverted right so
yeah it's a good one to drive down DS
how do you get how do we get the
interest of the firm how long is it
going to take we hit this a little bit
but what other insights do we have here
yeah C it back to the uh the table
Stakes right you need to be at a c gr
Etc okay so one thing I would encourage
all founders to read regardless of what
you want to do but there's a great book
on essentially how to sell your business
it's called Magic Box there it's a
horrible title but you think it's
magician but it is a it's a book on how
to sell your
business and it gives you a whole
framework it's written by Silicon Valley
lawyers done a lot of m&a and so it
gives you a ton of inside baseball
knowledge on things that you probably
wouldn't know so read that because that
will give you a a framework okay and
part of that framework is how do you get
R from a PE firm or a strategic you've
got to do the research you got to find
all these different firms that match
where you're at similar to raising money
from richer capitalist you want to match
your your round with the fund right like
you don't want to go if you're unless
you're going Cradle to grave with a
sequoia or somebody seed to to it but in
general you want to match those things
together and that PE firms are no
different there's certain PE firms that
they only do Billion Dollar Deals like
sales LT do an example and then there's
firms that do below 100 million and then
there's the mid-market firms so you want
to make sure that you find those firms
ideally you can find a firm that has
companies that are complimentary to what
you're doing because that's what a lot
of PE firms are looking for they're
looking for a rollup where they can
create this Voltron SAS startup to to
cross sell upsell to a a similar
customer base um and so we did that as
well um there's you you know I think
they get a bad rap people think they're
expensive I think they're worth their
weight in gold they can basically be
your bad cop right to your good you got
to have a bad cop gotta have a bad cop
right gotta have one abut early saster
post is when you sell your company
unless it's CEO to CEO there's a caveat
here you got to use a banker you have
because you can't if you're the bad cop
your life's gonna suck and you're gonna
get less money yep totally right you got
to be only the good cop right yeah it's
the sales rep and the sales manager let
me talk to my boss so invest in Banker
like how do you do that so what we did
is we um so first you want to find an
investment banker that can do your type
of deal right so if you're looking if
you think you could sell for your
hundreds of millions that's a mid-market
investment maker and so you want to only
interview those people and go for the
top ones I I would recommend just
standard three that you interview do it
very tight you know because you're going
to make a decision probably within two
weeks so you have your board join these
meetings the investment bankers will
pitch you and then you run a little bit
of an auction that helps you control the
process helps you control the the fee
structure and then you hire investment
banker now your investment banker is
going to want to go to market like
ASAP but you should only go to market to
and you're going to do a lot of pitches
like I did dozens of
pitches only going to want to do that
when you have you got to have momentum
and so momentum is a couple of quarters
of consistent Revenue growth right
nothing crazy if you're grow if you're I
would increase our Revenue targets by a
couple percentage points every quarter
you got to have enough I think it's
three quarters for p like it's probably
three months for a VC early stage you
need three quarters of strong growth
right but people aren't going to look
much they're not going to care what
happened Beyond those three quarters are
they yeah no and you need to have
insight into and momentum you got to
maintain that momentum because once you
sign that Loi and you're committed like
if you lose that momentum during that
window you're that deal is going
to implode or be shaved down
substantially that's a good one you got
to have three quarters of increasing
growth to keep the momentum y on the
banker side because one of my top
regrets as a Founder was not hiring a
banker the second time huge rats did
they actually bring you any potential P
buyer that actually gave you an offer
could they act or did they just
facilitate the process because I found
you have to manage your expectations
yeah for sure and another thing I'll add
about investment bankers once you get
into the fee structure
negotiation aligning incentives again
super important so you want to give them
a lot more side potential right if they
can get you another 500 plus
million and your price make it
worthwhile because they will go after it
and so we we structured that pretty well
for us so yeah we got four offers out of
that so that was great because that
applied pressure on the one we
ultimately went with and but did you
ultimately go with just so we all can
learn from this Bank investment making
process you got four offers they
generated three and you generated one
yeah that's right that's pretty good but
the one you got yourself kicked off the
process that's right yep you created it
sounds like you created the catalyst and
they went out and got you three more
offers which is their job they don't
it's harder for them to get you the one
in my experience like you can't it's
hard to hire an investment bank and say
I got no one that wants to buy me you go
find somebody but if you have one that's
a great moment to go hire a bank right
one one sort
of fish
offer stalking horse or two right yeah
like it's important I think for leverage
because in your mind you need to think I
will walk away any moment
if this doesn't work out if I don't get
everything I want I'm happy to walk away
and so you have to have that confidence
and having another potential offer on
the table really helps with that it
helps accelerate things like because the
potential acquir is going to want
exclusivity for Infinity so like you've
got to control that exclusivity ass and
I think you can do that by building
leverage with competing offers all right
so we can talk a little about the
timeline
timeline for us was roughly 90 days from
signing Loi to closing there's a couple
of extensions on exclusivity that were
annoying but once you sign that lii your
Leverage is
God doing anything we we should talk a
little bit about that so L yeah this is
a top mistake that Founders make that do
it the first time doubt that you get to
do this that many times in your life but
people are all uh friendly right there's
tough questions a lot of data everyone's
friendly but anything you don't get on
that Loi it's like mission impossible to
get anything added and then people will
also pick at you like hopefully not your
sponsor but people will start to pick at
those terms if there's some way they can
carve a few million out of there was
something in the Adobe deal that I
missed on how our deferred revenue
worked and like my Champion was like
it's fine and the corporate development
at the end said you got to knock a
million and a half off the price because
you have that much left to deferred
revenue and I'm like what am I going to
do I'm like I'm happy to walk away and
they're like you signed
it you signed it I'm like I don't want
to join a company where you're going to
knock a million and a half off this
price it doesn't matter to Adobe right
it does it's not going to change the
course of your business you're never
going to remember but you're
fundamentally damaging your relationship
with me you're don't I said to them
don't do this because you'll never know
s like I kept all the one5 I only had my
portion I'm like don't do this you're
breaking the relationship we're doing it
anyway
yeah but it was a terrible story but
it's a reminder once you sign that no it
only gets worse like you can't add
anything to that exactly so that's
obsessed like truly obsessed over this
talk to Founders that have been through
it and learn I I talked to Jason Jason
would you do differently you gave me
some great ideas like gave some good
tips I gave you some good tips yeah the
the employee pool for cash that was huge
yeah which is another thing if you end
up signing one of these make sure
everybody makes money even somebody that
you just hired a week ago make sure they
make some money it is at at the end of
the day it's
peanuts so we ended up carving out I
think 1% of the purchase price as a pool
and then we built a a structure based on
longevity and then we had a separate
pool for just impact players people that
we just want to give us on yep sub sou
over the lii put everything that you
want in there that's your wish list
that's put everything that you want
because after you sign that it does not
change it's the the term sheet
essentially the the other things that
will go that will help you get this done
much faster yeah back to having a
finance Wiz on your team get your
in order like out all your data is
probably all over the place just a
complete and utter mess right your con
your sales contracts are probably all
over the place you've got to proactively
get all that stuff organized and ready
to go ask your VCS for a typical due
diligence checklist that they've had for
previous companies that they've sold and
they'll happily give it to you and
you'll be shocked at how absurd it is
like it's it is really ridiculous but
you can get the vast majority of that
information done before you even sign
the
L and have it good to go it's a good
operational exercise it makes you better
in a number of ways
but getting that set up we use box to
get the data room set up it's pretty
easy to do and then the last thing is
beat the Ry
forecast you under promise and over
deliver yeah and that'll also help your
leverage yeah it's a good one to end on
this like your growth doesn't have to be
epic for PE to write you a good check
right but you got to beat the forecast
you got to have momentum right you got
whether you're growing 30% or 40% you
don't have to be 100 but make sure it's
if you engineer whatever I love this
quarterly everything make sure it's 30
31 31.5 31.8 don't let it dip even a
smidge even a hint it's just going to
create people are reading tea leaves
they're making a bat and any
deceleration even if it's a hint is
going to freak people out yep we every
almost every day after sign the how's
the quarter looking how's the
quarter Jesus yeah all right should we
just share our Salesforce you dashboard
to it so you can follow along real TI
yeah but yeah it is I think it's because
if you do screw up and you signed it
it's not the end of the world but you're
probably gonna get worse terms and maybe
a lower price so yeah it it matters all
right I love this so re accelerate
growth you had to completely rebuild
your management team lost almost the
entire sales team that could be a whole
session and move to quarterly metrics
and nail them including cash and get the
incentives aligned on it don't miss any
whatever you do Miss No Quarter hire a
bank I agree 100% you had a better
experience than I've had you actually
got three other offers though I haven't
done PE even if you don't just having a
bad guy to deal with your offer you'll
make more money and you'll have and
you'll have less stress right or they
they increase the price by more than
10% yeah even if they
don't even if they don't increase the
Top Line price they may make the
holdbacks better they may make the time
they can argue for they it's hard for
you when they say Andy we just want you
to stay eight years after the deal we
love you and you don't really want to
stay eight years it's hard to be like
nope not happening no it's hard to be
the bad guy but the bank can say listen
Andy's great but he's a pirate he's a
romantic you can have him for six months
or a year but it's very hard even that
discussion is very hard to have with an
acquirer when and so I I deeply regret
the second time not having a banker
because I had to have the tough
conversations and it was awful it was
just awful it was an awful exper I made
a mistake right but I top yeah yeah I
think if it's see listen if Mark
Zuckerberg calls you up and does the
deal himself this is the other learning
don't bring in a banker actually I've
have seen I want to get questions I
actually have seen several deals
broken where the CEO reached out and
they were they knew each other right hey
Andy we've been competitors or Partners
I'll give you 200 million and you say no
and then he says I'll give you 240 like
you got to just agree when it's co to co
you can't hire a banker you can't go to
28 rounds you can't do what what a
corporate development team can do or PE
firm that's my one Asis and Dagger if
the co reaches out to you and you know
her or him and it's a great offer ask
for a little more but then or get
off the camp yeah because when the CO's
putting all of their juice directly when
Mark Zuckerberg came in to WhatsApp and
Instagram 10% of the company you got to
maintain that trust at the CEO level
right yeah yeah if you trust that person
I think that's totally correct yeah and
save some money too investment bankers
are expensive no I still say pay them I
still say it's worth it but it's just I
agree if you hire one it's worth it when
the CEO reaches out to you personally
directly and you've met them you they
don't want to work through a third party
they will if they have to if it's a must
buy there are situations where it makes
sense but if they don't have to buy you
if it's elective but yeah we love
logical but there's other players don't
blow it when the co puts their own juice
for you pick up the phone talk to them
have an honest conversation ask for 20%
more maybe more but then call it a day
right like be kind
don't I saw one deal where the company
was in this box and the COO reached out
and said they'd buy them for over 200
million the company day is worth zero
and they just put they hired a bank and
the bank pushed it and pushed it and the
co just couldn't take it anymore and
just bought a worse competitor for 100
million but it just needed to get it
done yeah that's and a bank didn't know
a bank just kept doing it and pushing
I'm like guys this isn't that great a
company like this is I this was actually
an accidental investment that's my only
one yeah I love this is a great
summary yeah so everybody this was great
Andy thanks for joining this this was
another great Workshop
Wednesday if folks missed any of it or
whatnot it'll be edited and on our pod
and saster and everything else pretty
soon thanks man this was super terrific
really appreciate it yeah happy to be
here thanks Jason bye